.\""
.Dd February 13, 2007
.Dt FMROVERLAP 1  
.Os Mac OS X       
.Sh NAME
.Nm fmroverlap
.Nd Calculate the number of minutia that two records have in common
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar fmrfile1
.Fl i
.Ar fmrfile2
.Fl r
.Ar radius
.Op Fl v
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used calculate the number of minutia that are found to be
the same within two finger minutia records. The assumption is that the
two input files contain minutia calculated from the same image. The main
purpose of this program is to compute the minutia records that were created
by two different extractors.
.Pp
The criteria for overlapping minutiae is:
The finger numbers are identical;
the coordinate of one minutia falls within the radius of an imaginary
circle drawn about the second minutia's coordinate.
.Pp
.Bd -literal
fmroverlap -i m1.raw -i m2.raw -r 7
.Ed
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl i\ \&fmrfile1
Specifies the first file containing a complete M1 Finger Minutiae Format
as specified by ANSI/INCITS 378-2004.
.It Fl i\ \&fmrfile2
Specifies the second M1 file.
.It Fl r\ \&radius
Specifies the radius to use when calculating nearness of two minutiae. 
.It Fl v
Be verbose, meaning that matching minutiae are printed when
.Fl v
is given, as well as information about the containing finger view records
when
.Fl vv
is given.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
fmroverlap -i file1.raw -i file2.raw -r 16 -vv
.Pp
Produces some statistics on the number of minutiae that are found to be
the same in the two input files. The finger view records and all the
minutiae records are printed as well.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmrplot 1 ,
.Xr prfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmrprune .
.Sh BUGS
Minutiae from the extended data blocks should be considered.
.Sh HISTORY
Created February 13th, 2007 by NIST.
