.\""
.Dd February 9, 2007
.Dt FMRPRUNE 1  
.Os Mac OS X       
.Sh NAME
.Nm fmrprune
.Nd Prune M1 finger minutiae from a file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl mp
.Fl n
.Ar num
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl mr
.Fl n
.Ar num
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl me
.Fl n
.Ar num
.Fl a
.Ar semiminor
.Fl b
.Ar semimajor
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl ml
.Fl c
.Ar point
.Fl a
.Ar width
.Fl b
.Ar height
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to prune minutiae from an INCITS-378 input file.
The number of minutiae to be copied to the output file is specified by the
.Fl n
option. The output file contains all the INCITS 378 record information, with
no more than the requested number of minutiae. 
Minutiae from the extended data blocks are not examined at this time.
.Pp
For the Polar pruning method: If the input
file contains less minutiae than the requested amount, all of the minutiae
will be included in the output file. 
The minutiae that are selected 
are chosen based on the location of the minutia relative to the center of
mass for all the minutiae.
.Pp
For the Random pruning method: If the input file contains less minutiae than
the requested amount, all of the minutiae will be included in the output file. 
.Pp
For the Elliptical pruning method: Minutiae are chosen when they fall within
the ellipse specified by the
.Fl a
and
.Fl b
options, with a center located at the center of mass of 
all the minutiae. Option 
.Fl a
is the length of the semiminor axis, which is parallel to the X axis of the
image. Option
.Fl b
is the length of semimajor axis, which is parallel to the Y axis of the image.
The semiminor axis length must not be greater than the semimajor axis length.
The number of selected minutiae my be less than the requested amount, but will
not be greater.
.Pp
For the Rectangular pruning method: Minutiae are chosen when they fall within
the rectangle with the upper left corner specified with the
.Fl c 
option. The
.Fl a
and
.Fl b
options specify the width and height, respectively, of the rectangle.
The size of the rectangle is not checked against the image size in the
minutiae record.
All minutiae contained within the rectangle are returned.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "-o m1outfile" -indent
.It Fl i\ \&m1infile
Specifies the file containing a complete M1 Finger Minutiae Format as specified
by ANSI/INCITS 378-2004.
.It Fl o\ \&m1outfile
Specifies the file that will contain the pruned set of minutiae. This file must
not exist.
.It Fl mp
Specifies the Polar pruning method.
.It Fl mr
Specifies the Random pruning method.
.It Fl me
Specifies the Elliptical pruning method.
.It Fl ml
Specifies the Rectangular pruning method.
.It Fl n\ \&num
Specifies the maximum number of minutiae to take from the input file. If a
finger view contains less minutiae than asked for, all are copied to the
output file.  A value of 0 is valid.
.It Fl c\ \&point
Specifies the (x,y) coordinates of the upper left corner of the rectangle.
.It Fl a\ \&width
Specifies the semiminor axis length of the ellipse, or the width
of the rectangle, in pixels. Must be greater than 0.
.It Fl b\ \&height
Specifies the semimajor axis length of the ellipse, or the height
of the rectangle, in pixels. Must be greater than 0.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
fmrprune -i m1.raw -o newm1.raw -n 16 -me -a 75 -b 60
.Pp
Produces a new file containing at most 16 minutiae from the input file using
the Elliptical pruning method.
.Pp
fmrprune -i m1.raw -o newm1.raw -ml -c100,200 -a 50 -b 50
.Pp
Produces a new file containing all the minutiae contained within the
rectangle.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmrplot 1 ,
.Xr prfmr 1 .
.Sh BUGS
Minutiae from the extended data blocks should be considered.
.Sh HISTORY
Created January 23rd, 2007 by NIST.
Elliptical pruning method added February 9th, 2007 by NIST.
Random pruning method added February 22nd, 2007 by NIST.
Rectangular pruning method added March 15th, 2007 by NIST.
