.\""
.Dd June 1, 2007
.Dt FMRSORT 1  
.Os Mac OS X       
.Sh NAME
.Nm fmrsort
.Nd Sort M1 finger minutiae into a new file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl mp | mx | my | ma
.Op Fl r
.Nm
.Fl i
.Ar infile
.Fl o
.Ar outfile
.Fl mr
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to sort minutiae in an INCITS-378 input file.
Minutiae from the extended data blocks are not examined at this time.
The default sorting order is ascending (except for random sorting),
and only one pruning method can be chosen.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "-o m1outfile"
.It Fl i\ \&m1infile
Specifies the file containing a complete M1 Finger Minutiae Format as specified
by ANSI/INCITS 378-2004.
.It Fl o\ \&m1outfile
Specifies the file that will contain the sorted set of minutiae. This file must
not exist.
.It Fl mp
Specifies the Polar sorting method.
.It Fl mx
Specifies the Cartesian X-Y sorting method.
.It Fl my
Specifies the Cartesian Y-X sorting method.
.It Fl ma
Specifies the Angle sorting method.
.It Fl mr
Specifies the Random sorting method.
.It Fl r
Sort in reverse (descending) order.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
fmrsort -i m1.raw -o newm1.raw -mx
.Pp
Produces a new file containing the minutiae from the input file sorted
using the Cartesian X-Y method, in ascending order.
.Pp
fmrsort -i m1.raw -o newm1.raw -mp -r
.Pp
Produces a new file containing the minutiae from the input file sorted
using the Polar method, in descending order.
.Pp
fmrsort -i m1.raw -o newm1.raw -mr
.Pp
Produces a new file containing the minutiae from the input file randomly sorted.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmrplot 1 ,
.Xr fmrprune 1 ,
.Xr prfmr 1 .
.Sh BUGS
Minutiae from the extended data blocks should be considered.
.Pp
Non-ANSI minutiae records should be supported.
.Sh HISTORY
Created June 1st, 2007 by NIST.
