.\""
.Dd June 15, 2006
.Dt MINEXV 1  
.Os Mac OS X       
.Sh NAME
.Nm minexv
.Nd Verify that an M1 Finger Minutiae Format file complies with the NIST
MINEX04 test criteria.
.Pp
.Nm minexov
.Nd Verify that an M1 Finger Minutiae Format file complies with the NIST
MINEX-Ongoing test criteria.
.Pp
.Nm minex2v
.Nd Verify that an M1 Finger Minutiae Format file complies with the NIST
MINEX-II test criteria.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm minexv
.Op Fl p
.Ar datafile
.Nm minexov
.Ar datafile
.Nm minex2v
.Ar datafile
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm minexv ,
.Nm minexov , and
.Nm minex2v
commands are used to verify a file containing an ANSI/INCITS 378-2004 
fingerprint minutiae record against the set of criteria proscribed by the
NIST suite of MINEX studies. Verification includes checking the file against
the requirements of the 378-2004 specification in addition to constraints
provided by the MINEX study.
.Pp
The
.Fl p
option can be used to indicate that the finger quality values should use the
NFIQ mapping as defined in the Personal Identity Verification (PIV) standard.
This mapping uses quality values of 100, 80, 60, 40, and 20 to represent
NFIQ values 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. If the
.Fl p
option is not given, then the MINEX04 mapping will be used with values
100, 75, 50, 25, and 1.
.Pp
The output of the program is a set of text messages. ERROR messages are
violations of the particular testing criteria. INFO messages indicate areas
where the M1 record doesn't meet expectations, but is not in technical
violation. For example, when there are no Core or Delta records.
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
\'minexv m1.raw'
.Pp
Will produce output similar to:
.Pp
-----------------
MINEX Validation:
-----------------
ERROR: Impression type is invalid.
ERROR: Finger quality is invalid.
INFO: Core count is 0, Delta count is 0.
INFO: Ridge record count is 378.
ERROR: Ridge Count extended data not eight-neighbor.
Does not pass MINEX04 criteria.
--------------------------------
ANSI/INCITS 378-2004 Validation:
--------------------------------
Impression Type 6 is invalid.
Finger Minutiae Record is invalid.
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmrv 1 ,
.Xr prfmr 1 .
.Sh HISTORY
Created June 16th, 2005 by NIST.
.Pp
Add -p option June 15th, 2006 by NIST.
.Pp
Add minexov and minex2v versions of the program, October 15th, 2007 by NIST.
