.\""
.Dd March 18, 2005
.Dt PRFMR 1  
.Os Mac OS X       
.Sh NAME
.Nm prfmr
.Nd Prints Fingerprint Minutiae Record in human-readable form.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Oo Fl ti Ar type Oc
.Ar m1file
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to print Finger Minutiae Records
in human-readable form. The output is sent to stdout, while error messages
are sent to stderr. The 
.Nm
program will attempt to read an ANSI/INCITS 378-2004 format record unless some
other type is specified with the
.Fl ti
option. 
.Pp
The minutiae record can be optionally verified, which means the certain fields 
in the record are checked against constraints given in the ANSI/INCITS 378-2004
or ISO 19794-2 specifications.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "xxxxxxxx"
.It Fl v
causes the file records to be verified before printing;
.It Fl ti\ \&type
Specifies the input file type.
.El
.Pp
Valid types for the input file are:
.Bl -tag -width "xxxxxx"
.It Cm ANSI
ANSI/INCITS 378-2004 format;
.It Cm ANSI07
ANSI/INCITS 378-2007 format;
.It Cm ISO
ISO/IEC 19794-2 format;
.It Cm ISONC
ISO/IEC 19794-2 normal card format;
.It Cm ISOCC
ISO/IEC 19794-2 compact card format.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
\'prfmr m1.raw'
.Pp
Print the ANSI minutiae record.
.Pp
\'prfmr -v -ti ISOCC cc.raw'
.Pp
Verify, and if successful, print the ISO compact card minutiae record.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkfmr 1 ,
.Xr fmr2an2k 1 .
.Xr fmr2fmr 1 .
.Sh STANDARDS
``Biometric Data Interchange Formats, Part 2: Finger Minutiae data'',
ISO 19794-2, 2005-09-15.
.Pp
``Finger Minutiae Format for Data Interchange'', ANSI/INCITS 378-2004,
February 20, 2004.
.Sh HISTORY
Created March 18th, 2005 by NIST.
ISO formats added April 17, 2007 by NIST.
Input type argument added May 31, 2007 by NIST.
ANSI '07 type argument added December 17, 2007 by NIST.
