# example_api

### Usage: 
example_api [-h] _modelInfoFile_ _fingerPrintImage_

### Output:
If example_api is able to parse both a NFIQ 2 RF Model and a valid fingerprint image, the expected output will be a list of scores generated from the respective fingerprint image. These scores are the same scores that can be obtained from the NFIQ 2 CLI CSV output. 


Each score will be printed with its respective header. Each score will be printed on a separate line.


The first score that gets printed is the NFIQ 2 Quality Score and it will appear as:
		
	"QualityScore: [value]"


The next series of scores will be from actionable feedback. This includes:

	"EmptyImageOrContrastTooLow: [value]" to "SufficientFingerprintForeground: [value]"


The final series of scores will be quality feature data. These are the scores generated by the individual metrics that comprise the NFIQ 2 quality algorithm. This includes: 
		
	"FDA_Bin10_0: [value]" to "RVUP_Bin10_StdDev: [value]"


There is also another series of scores that have been ommitted. This is speed data. They indicate how long (in ms) each metric took to compute. Since these scores will be different across every run, they have been excluded from the output.


### Testing

Expected output files are located in the "output" directory. To ensure that scores generated by the sample API are consistent with the expected output, you can perform a diff on the two outputs.

```bash
$ diff SFinGe_Test_0X_output.txt Your_SFinGe_Test_0X_output.txt
```

If the resulting output is clean then the generated scores are identical.

### Citation

The fingerprint images included in the "images" subdirectory are synthetic images generated by SFiNGe.

Cappelli, R., Maio, D., and Maltoni, D. SFinGe: An Approach to Synthetic Fingerprint Generation, International Workshop on Biometric Technologies, 2004. (Demo software available at http://biolab.csr.unibo.it/research.asp?organize=Activities&select=&selObj=12&pathSubj=111%7C%7C12& ).
